(logo whooshing)
Over the next couple of videos,
we're gonna be working with signing in, signing up,
signing out, resetting password,
all of stuff that revolves around user authentication.
And thankfully for us, Keystone does a really good job
at sort of handling all the logic behind that
and it's up to us to actually code the UI,
where people can put their password in
or reset it and things like that.
So, what we're gonna do first
is let's go to the navigation here.
And we will start to show
the currently logged in user in the navigation
and if they are not logged in, we're gonna show
a link in here to a sign up or sign in page.
So, we need to go into our components here
and we're gonna make a user component.
So, User,
and that component is going to contain a query
for the current user, as well as a custom hook
that will allow us to get the current user,
regardless of which file we're in.
Because, we're gonna be writing a pretty big query
and any time you want the current user,
it's kind of annoying to have to rerun that single query.
So, what we can do here is we can just create a custom hook
that will just return either the current user or not.
And we don't have to worry about the logic
that's behind that.
So, we'll go in here into our user
and we will make a function called useUser.
And we'll export that.
It's not a default here, so just export useUser.
And then inside of that,
we will write a query.
So, const  is equal to useQuery.
And we need to write a query called current_user_query.
I'll write that in just a second.
And I'll go up here and say, const.
We'll take the name of that.
Current_user_query = GQL.
And let's stop a second just import a few things
that we need.
So we need to use query.
Good.
And then we also need GQL to be imported.
Good, okay.
Then inside of here,
the query that we need to write
is it's called authenticated item.
And the reason why it's not user,
because Keystone makes it sort of agnostic as to what
this thing is called.
When we set up our schema,
we told it to use user as the authenticated item.
But it could be authenticated company.
It could be authenticated dog.(laughs)
You know what I mean.
It could be anything, obviously, it's most likely user,
but we'll call it authenticated item.
And then it's kind of interesting, this one right here,
if we take a look at our graph QL API.
(mouse clicking)
And we were to query that.
AuthenticatedItem.
What is returned from that is like look,
if you'd start typing, it's like, there's nothing here.
Like name, run.
Cannot query name, okay.
Maybe ID, ID is always the one, right?
No.
So look like, what can you query?
I'm logged in, right, I'm logged in.
This is fine.
Like, why can't I query anything on there?
So we'll go to the docs for that.
And we'll search for AuthenticatedItem
and you see that it will return a user.
But it doesn't return those values directly.
It actually returns a type, which is a user.
So close this and you say, okay, Wes.
User.
And then we get the ID, and that work?
(mouse clicking)
No.
What about this user?
And the interesting thing about that or the important thing
to note that is that it returns a union.
And a union means it could return multiple types of values.
It could return this or this,
and in our case it could return a user.
And what we need to do is a special thing in graph QL
that says ... on User.
So, when the authenticated item returns a user,
then on that user we will return the email and the ID
and things like that.
And then it will actually run.
So, why is that?
Well, sometimes you might be like query a media, right?
And on that media,
or you wanna say like
on a TV show I wanna grab the episode count.
But then if it is on a movie,
then I just wanna grab the length
or the length of how long it is or like time.
And that's really important because sometimes we
are querying for things that return two different types.
They both are media.
So, they're still of the type of media,
but they're sort of a subtype.
And in order for us to stop writing
a whole bunch of if statements and whatnot,
we simply just say when it is a TV show or on a TV show,
give me the episode count.
And when it's a movie or on a movie,
give me this time.
So, in our case, it only does return one thing,
which is user.
But I would imagine that authenticatedItem
could return other things as well for that specific,
because it's not just a user.
Like I said, it could be a company as well.
So, in our case, we say on user, give me the ID and email.
So, we'll go back here and say ... on user.
And for that user, we wanna get the ID, the email, the name,
and then we'll put a little to-do here.
Query the cart once we have it.
We don't have a cart yet but we're going to be querying
the user's cart on this user right here.
So, now that we have that, we can go here
and say const  = useQuery(CURRENT_USER_QUERY).
And then we will return data?authenticatedItem.
And what that'll do is to say,
if there is data return the authenticatedItem inside of it.
If there's not data the question mark
will just return undefined.
And that way we'll know
that the user's not currently logged in.
So, this may seem really simple but this is way better
than having to import the query
and useQuery and access the autheticatedItem
and check for the nested values.
So, just tuck it away into its own little hook.
Then what we can do is in our Nav,
we simply use that hook.
So, we'll say, do we export that?
Yes we do.
And we also need to export the CURRENT_USER_QUERY as well.
That's important.
So, in here, we'll just say,
const user = useUser.
And we can import that.
And if you log out the user and you're logged in,
we should see an object.
There we go.
There's the object of the currently logged in user.
If I were to open this up in a incognito tab here.
That should be.
There we go, null.
It returns to us, null, which is great.
So, we can go into our navigation here and say,
like what are the things that we only wanna show
if they're logged in.
These three things right here.
So, what we'll do is we'll say,
user && ().
And then inside of those parentheses,
we'll put the items that we only want to show up
when they're logged in.
(keyboard clicking)
Okay.
Given me some grief here.
Adjacent JSX elements, obviously,
you can't return three elements right here.
So, you have to use a fragment in React.
So, that looks fine.
And if I open up the...
That in a not logged in state,
we'll only see products showing up.
Okay, good.
Now, what we want is if the user is not logged in.
So, if there is no user then what we wanna do is
we'll have a sign in link.
It'll link them to the sign-in page.
(mouse clicking)
And I'm gonna do this work in a incognito tab,
just so they don't actually have to log out just yet.
And then you click on, that's not a page yet.
So, we'll go ahead and create that page.
So, go to your pages.
Let's just take one that doesn't have anything in it.
What could it be here?
Orders.
Let's just save orders.js as signin.js.
Rename this to SignInPage.
And we'll say sign on in.
All right, so that is the querying the current user.
In the next one, we will code the sign-in form,
then the sign-up form and then there's a couple more.